README.md, before:

# My Project Title

This is a template for CA400 projects.  Please read these instructions carefully.

This file is written in
[markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/).  Markdown
is a suitable format for documents stored in git repositories.

## Instructions

You *must* do the following:

1 - Fork this repo.

2 - Rename your fork using the format

    2018-ca400-USERNAME

replacing `USERNAME` with your School of Computing login name.

For example, if Stephen Blott were to be doing a fourth-year project, he would rename
his repo as:

 2018-ca400-sblott

You can rename your repo by selecting *Edit Project* from the drop-down menu
(with a gear icon) on the top right of your project's home page.  Change the
*Project name* field **and** the *Path*.

You should also update the *Project description*.

3 - This directory has two sub-directories.

- All of your source code should be placed in the `src` sub-directory.

- All of your documentation should be placed in the `docs` sub-directory.

4 - There is further important documentation in the `docs` directory.  Read that next.

When you are have followed all of these instructions and are sure that you
understand what is expected, you may replace the contents of this file with a
brief description of your project (two or three paragraphs).

## Additional Resources

- Git [cheat sheet](https://gitlab.computing.dcu.ie/sblott/local-gitlab-documentation/blob/master/cheat-sheet.md)
- Gitlab [CI environment](https://gitlab.computing.dcu.ie/sblott/docker-ci-environment) and it's [available software](https://gitlab.computing.dcu.ie/sblott/docker-ci-environment/blob/master/Dockerfile)
- Example projects with CI configured:
   * [Python](https://gitlab.computing.dcu.ie/sblott/test-project-python)
   * [Java](https://gitlab.computing.dcu.ie/sblott/test-project-java)
   * [MySql](https://gitlab.computing.dcu.ie/sblott/test-project-mysql)

Commit message:

Update README.md Placed an emphasis on the lower case file naming requirement. Added the blog directory details.

README.md, after:

# My Project Title

This is a template for CA400 projects.  Please read these instructions carefully.

This file is written in
[markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/).  Markdown
is a suitable format for documents stored in git repositories.

## Instructions

You *must* do the following:

1 - Fork this repo.

2 - Rename your fork using the format (all lower case letters)

    2018-ca400-username

replacing `username` with your School of Computing login name.

For example, if Stephen Blott were to be doing a fourth-year project, he would rename
his repo as:

 2018-ca400-sblott

You can rename your repo by selecting *Edit Project* from the drop-down menu
(with a gear icon) on the top right of your project's home page.  Change the
*Project name* field **and** the *Path*.

You should also update the *Project description*.

3 - This directory has two sub-directories.

- All of your source code should be placed in the `src` sub-directory.

- All of your documentation should be placed in the `docs` sub-directory.

- Your project blog should be places in the `blog` sub-directory. 


4 - There is further important documentation in the `docs` directory.  Read that next.

When you are have followed all of these instructions and are sure that you
understand what is expected, you may replace the contents of this file with a
brief description of your project (two or three paragraphs).

## Additional Resources

- Git [cheat sheet](https://gitlab.computing.dcu.ie/sblott/local-gitlab-documentation/blob/master/cheat-sheet.md)
- Gitlab [CI environment](https://gitlab.computing.dcu.ie/sblott/docker-ci-environment) and it's [available software](https://gitlab.computing.dcu.ie/sblott/docker-ci-environment/blob/master/Dockerfile)
- Example projects with CI configured:
   * [Python](https://gitlab.computing.dcu.ie/sblott/test-project-python)
   * [Java](https://gitlab.computing.dcu.ie/sblott/test-project-java)
   * [MySql](https://gitlab.computing.dcu.ie/sblott/test-project-mysql)
