**School of Computing**

**Year 4 Project Proposal Form**

**SECTION A**

Project Title: ‘Undecided’

Student Name: Mark McAdam

Student ID: 14566803 Stream: CASE

Project Supervisor Name
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

**General area covered by project**

My proposal is a take-away delivery app, something like what already exists for
example JustEat. The app would allow for group payments and would have a feature
that matches customers allowing people to split meal deals with others near
them.

**Background**

The idea for the app stems from my use of the JustEat app and the lack of
features to cater for group, one person may order everything but they will also
then have to pay for everything and this can get messy when trying to figure out
who owes what.

**Achievements**

The app would be aimed primarily at students as they are most likely to be

ordering take-away food.

The unique selling points of my app versus the mainstream competition already
popular would be the inclusion of group wallets and the possibility of an Uber
like real time tracking system that would allow a driver to see your exact
location and vice versa.

The latter would be a useful feature if you were abroad or if you are generally
unfamiliar with the area.

Other features include a matching system to allow strangers to get the best
value for their money by splitting meal deals with others.

The app could potentially harness blockchain for the payment system, this would
ultimately speed up payments and make the process more secure as well as letting
the app hold a detailed organised ledger of historical transactions.

**Justification**

This app would be an improvement upon existing apps providing a similar service
and would allow greater ease of communication between customers and business.
Speeding up both the ordering and delivery process by providing more detailed
and accurate information in real-time. The ability to split meal deals would be
a useful feature for college students living on a budget and having a dense
population of students nearby would make the meal deal splitting system
effective.

**Programming Languages**

The main app would be built for Android, I would also like to have a web
application which I would most likely be built using the MEAN stack i.e.
MongoDB, ExpressJS, AngularJS & NodeJS

In terms of the location system, the Uber API should have the features needed to

implement this.

**Proposal Guidelines**

**[Note: It is the student’s responsibility to ensure that the Supervisor
accepts your project and this is only recognised once the Supervisor assigns
herself/himself via the project dashboard. Project proposals without an assigned
Supervisor will not be accepted for presentation to the Approval Panel.]**

**SECTION B**

Proposal Description – *using the following headings*:

-   General area covered by the project

-   Outline of the proposed project

    -   Background - where the ideas came from

    -   Achievements - what functions it provides, who the users will be

    -   Justification - why/when/where/how it will be useful

-   Programming language(s) - List the proposed language(s) to be used

-   Programming tools / Tech stack – e.g. compiler, database, web server, etc.

-   Learning Challenges - List the main new things (technologies, languages,
    tools, etc) that you will have to learn

-   Hardware / software platform - State the hardware and software platform for
    development

-   Special hardware / software requirements - Describe any special
    requirements.

Make use of figures / diagrams where appropriate.

**Note:** The final revision of your proposal form should be converted to a
**PDF** in your GitLab repo from where it will be automatically collected.
