docs/blog/blog.md, before:

# Delock Blog

## `Monday November 13, 2017`

I had my first meeting with my supervisor David Sinclair last week on Tuesday the 7th. Since then I have written a first draft of my Functional Specification, I have another meeting with David tomorrow in which we will review the draft.

---

## `Tuesday November 14, 2017`

I had my second meeting with David today, in the run up to this meeting I was working on the Functional Spec and created a number of detailed Use cases. This helped me emmensly in that I now have a much clearer idea of how the system will function and what I will need to do to implement it.

At the moment, I feel the best stack for developing the DApp will be:

1. Web3j (Android client for communicating with the blockchain)
2. Truffle (testing smart contracts)
3. Infura (Will host a network of nodes that will act as my blockchain network)

### `Done`

- ~~Setup Infura test network~~

### `To-Do`

- Complete full draft of Functional Spec
- Download and learn how to use Web3j

---

## `Friday November 17, 2017`

I spent this week working on a draft of the Functional Specification, I have the majority of the work done on the spec and it will just be a matter of cleaning it up and refining my diagrams next week. I also found he Uport library, it seems like it could be a good option for handling user authentication within the application. I will look into this further next week.

Drafted sketches of some spec diagrams:
![specDiagram](https://gitlab.computing.dcu.ie/mcadamm4/2018-ca400-mcadamm4/tree/master/docs/blog/images/specDiagram1.jpg)
![specDiagram2](https://gitlab.computing.dcu.ie/mcadamm4/2018-ca400-mcadamm4/tree/master/docs/blog/images/specDiagram2.jpg)
![specDiagram3](https://gitlab.computing.dcu.ie/mcadamm4/2018-ca400-mcadamm4/tree/master/docs/blog/images/specDiagram3.jpg)

### `Done`

- ~~Complete first draft of Specification~~

### `To-Do`

- Refine Functional Specifiacction (due next Friday)
- Investigate Uport and Web3j

---

## `Wednesday November 22, 2017`

I met with my supervisor yesterday to review the Functional spec, he was happy except I was missing hardware requirements. I finished work on the spec today by completing the schedule, high level design and fixing all the formatting.

### `Done`

- ~~Functional Spec~~

### `To-Do`

- Have hardware in hand for beginning of next semester
- Complete tutorials over the break to learn solidity and hooking an app to a blockchain network.

---

## `Friday December 15th 2017`

This last few weeks I have been very busy with assignments and have been researching what type of hardware I will need. Hoping to order soon so I will have it for the end of January.

I have also found an online book being developed by the Ethereum community on github as a comprehensive knowledge base for developing with Ethereum and have begun reading it. I will read this over the Christmas period.

[Ethereum Builder's Guide](https://ethereumbuilders.gitbooks.io/guide/content/en/index.html)

---

## `Tuesday February 13th 2018`

Over the break I ordered and received all of the parts I need to make the locking mechanism including a "Keyduino" which is a specialized Arduino Leonardo with NFC built in. I also pracitced some React Native by building an app.

### `Done`

- ~~Get parts~~

### `To-Do`

- Build react native application connected to Ethereum network
- Build Android application to communicate with Arduino
- Integrate these two applications into one

---

## `Wednesday February 22nd 2018`

So far I have built a simple application that uses the "Ethereum Android" wallet to connect to the ethereum blockchain behind the scenes. Seperate to that I have a simple React native application that shows listings for houses. My next step will be to try and integrate the functionality of both of these applications. 

I have also been thinking about using Firebase for storing details about listings and other things rather than IPFS.

### `Done`

- ~~Build react native application~~ 
- ~~Build app connected to Ethereum network~~

### `To-Do`
- Integrate react native app with ethereum app
- Research UPort for authentication if needed
- Research Firebase for use as storage rather than IPFS
- Integrate these two applications into one

---
## `Sunday March 4th`
Over the last week and a half, I was considerng making a lot of design changes which I unfortunelty forgot to document here. The basic problem was doubt about handling of user accounts thorugh the Ethereum Android wallet, I was planning on switching to the UPort framework and instead of having NFC enabled arduinos tht would unlock the items there would be a QR code stciker and when scanned with your phoned camera would provide you with a pin for unlocking the item.
The QR code part would work but UPort would not ork with mobile.

I ruled out these changes and carried on with my original design, hwoever I have decided not to use React Native as the workload and learning needed integrate Native Java code required for Ethereum Android with React Natives Javascript outweighs the benefit of using the frameowkr, seeing as I wont be targeting IOS I can focus on developing primarily for android.

From now on I will have more frequent and less verbose blogs documenting more granular decisions, at the moment I have a native android application that uses the Ethereum Android library to communicate with Ethereum through the Ethereum Android application.

I am now researching integration of IPFS, I cannot use Firebase as previously mentioned as this is at odds with the goal of totl decentralization.

I have also started developing a testing plan.

---
## `Continuation`
I have been researching how I can identify users of the system. The technology does not yet exist to have a decentralized ID validation system whereby ID's would exist as contracts on the blockchain and could be used as a source of truth for a persons identity. Delock needs to validate a persons identity to deter robberies and fake account creation, we need to be able to concretely associate a person with an Ethereum Address.

I will look into integrating this feature using a regular api and put on record that the idea is for the system to move to a decentralized method of ID verification in the future when the software exists.

---
## `Monday March 5th`
I have been grappling with understanding why so many Dapps launched their own unique ERC20 tokens as opposed to just using Ether (The currency used to run the etehereum network). The thing is that they cannot charge fees on ether and after some research I have found that I will not require such a token as it is merely a means by which project developers introduce fees that are then used to further fund the project development. This was something I had thought would be very problematic for me and I am relived to find it does not apply.

I have also begun drafting the smart contracts for Userrs and Listings in order to see what functionality will need to be implemennted. I intend to draw up more formal diagrams in the near future.

In terms of ID verification I cannot find a non-enterprise level API, I may have to leave this unimplemented and just say that it would be implemented in the future when the tech is there to integrate. Not having this leaves a the application open to fraud by users creating throwaway ethereum addresses I believe.

---

## `Thursday March 16th`

I have been tried to make a start on the hardware side of things, at the moment I have a seperate (test app) running on my phone which is able to successfully talk to the arduino and send information. I also have created a barebones UI for the delock app using a card view structure, I decided to do some work on the UI as I really wanted to see some tangible progress. Over the next week I will work on integrating the NFC functionality into the delock app.

---

## `Sunday March 18th`
St.Patricks day was very cold but still great. Continuing on with my work on the UI I have decided to take a step backwards and look at implmenting a MVP (Model, View, Presenter) type architecture so as to aid maintainabiliy, extensibility and seperation of concerns between activites. If I can manage this it should make life a lot easier down the road. In addition to this I have found a brilliant open source collection of android UI design examples which should speed up my UI/UX design and implementation significantly.

I hope to have the MVP structure set up today and can then work on getting the NFC functionality in.

### Reading: https://antonioleiva.com/mvp-android/


---
## `Thursday March 29th`
I spent quite  bit of time trying to make the MVP structurer work but to no avail. I found it very hard to understand and quite different to MVC for web which I have a good bit of experience with, therefore I have scrapped that and in the time since my last blog I have implemented some basic NFC functionality and hooked up some more placeholder activity screens that need to be finished.

Now that I know the NFC if working and I have a decent proportion of the UI in place I want to start work on the smart contracts and communication with Ethereum. From reading more into Ethereum Android it looks like I may have to stop using it in favour of creating my own wallet and communicating with the blockchain via Web3j as Ethereum Android does not facilitate the deployment of smart contracts which it a big part of the application.

---
## `Sunday April 15th`
Since last I have decided to stop using Ethereum-Android wallet as I belive I can implement the needed functionality using Web3j in my own application, I have also managed to implement an IPFS daemon that will communicate with IPFS which acts as my database for pushing and pulling data, I was able to do this by using some code from an open source project called IPFSDroid on github. My plan now is to start writing the smart contracts.

---
---
[images](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet#images)
in my blog.

![cat](https://gitlab.computing.dcu.ie/sblott/2018-ca400-XXXX/raw/master/docs/blog/images/cat.jpg)

Here are the instructions:

- Add the image to your repo (probably using the `images` sub-directory here).
  The cat example above is in `./images/cat.jpg`.

- Commit that and push it to your repo.

- On Gitlab, navigate to your new image and click *Raw*.  You get the raw URL of your image.  Copy that URL.

- Add your image to this document using the following format:

    <pre>![alternative text](URL)</pre>

See the example [here](https://gitlab.computing.dcu.ie/sblott/2018-ca400-XXXX/raw/master/docs/blog/blog.md).

You can also mention other users (like me: @sblott).

## Including Code

Raw text:
```
Mary had a little lamb,
it's fleece was white as snow.
```

Syntax highlighting is also possible; for example...

Python:
```python
i = 0
while i < len(s):
   # So something.
   i = i + 1
```

Java:
```java
for (i=0; i<s.length(); i+=1) {
   // Do something.
}
```

Coffeescript:
```coffeescript
i = 0
while i < s.length
   # So something.
   i = i + 1
```

## Instructions

Once you've understood this sample, replace it with your own blog.

Commit message:

AddItemActivity & AccountDetailsActivity created. Drawer added to all main activities.

docs/blog/blog.md, after:

# Delock Blog

## `Monday November 13, 2017`

I had my first meeting with my supervisor David Sinclair last week on Tuesday the 7th. Since then I have written a first draft of my Functional Specification, I have another meeting with David tomorrow in which we will review the draft.

---

## `Tuesday November 14, 2017`

I had my second meeting with David today, in the run up to this meeting I was working on the Functional Spec and created a number of detailed Use cases. This helped me emmensly in that I now have a much clearer idea of how the system will function and what I will need to do to implement it.

At the moment, I feel the best stack for developing the DApp will be:

1. Web3j (Android client for communicating with the blockchain)
2. Truffle (testing smart contracts)
3. Infura (Will host a network of nodes that will act as my blockchain network)

### `Done`

- ~~Setup Infura test network~~

### `To-Do`

- Complete full draft of Functional Spec
- Download and learn how to use Web3j

---

## `Friday November 17, 2017`

I spent this week working on a draft of the Functional Specification, I have the majority of the work done on the spec and it will just be a matter of cleaning it up and refining my diagrams next week. I also found he Uport library, it seems like it could be a good option for handling user authentication within the application. I will look into this further next week.

Drafted sketches of some spec diagrams:
![specDiagram](https://gitlab.computing.dcu.ie/mcadamm4/2018-ca400-mcadamm4/tree/master/docs/blog/images/specDiagram1.jpg)
![specDiagram2](https://gitlab.computing.dcu.ie/mcadamm4/2018-ca400-mcadamm4/tree/master/docs/blog/images/specDiagram2.jpg)
![specDiagram3](https://gitlab.computing.dcu.ie/mcadamm4/2018-ca400-mcadamm4/tree/master/docs/blog/images/specDiagram3.jpg)

### `Done`

- ~~Complete first draft of Specification~~

### `To-Do`

- Refine Functional Specifiacction (due next Friday)
- Investigate Uport and Web3j

---

## `Wednesday November 22, 2017`

I met with my supervisor yesterday to review the Functional spec, he was happy except I was missing hardware requirements. I finished work on the spec today by completing the schedule, high level design and fixing all the formatting.

### `Done`

- ~~Functional Spec~~

### `To-Do`

- Have hardware in hand for beginning of next semester
- Complete tutorials over the break to learn solidity and hooking an app to a blockchain network.

---

## `Friday December 15th 2017`

This last few weeks I have been very busy with assignments and have been researching what type of hardware I will need. Hoping to order soon so I will have it for the end of January.

I have also found an online book being developed by the Ethereum community on github as a comprehensive knowledge base for developing with Ethereum and have begun reading it. I will read this over the Christmas period.

[Ethereum Builder's Guide](https://ethereumbuilders.gitbooks.io/guide/content/en/index.html)

---

## `Tuesday February 13th 2018`

Over the break I ordered and received all of the parts I need to make the locking mechanism including a "Keyduino" which is a specialized Arduino Leonardo with NFC built in. I also pracitced some React Native by building an app.

### `Done`

- ~~Get parts~~

### `To-Do`

- Build react native application connected to Ethereum network
- Build Android application to communicate with Arduino
- Integrate these two applications into one

---

## `Wednesday February 22nd 2018`

So far I have built a simple application that uses the "Ethereum Android" wallet to connect to the ethereum blockchain behind the scenes. Seperate to that I have a simple React native application that shows listings for houses. My next step will be to try and integrate the functionality of both of these applications. 

I have also been thinking about using Firebase for storing details about listings and other things rather than IPFS.

### `Done`

- ~~Build react native application~~ 
- ~~Build app connected to Ethereum network~~

### `To-Do`
- Integrate react native app with ethereum app
- Research UPort for authentication if needed
- Research Firebase for use as storage rather than IPFS
- Integrate these two applications into one

---
## `Sunday March 4th`
Over the last week and a half, I was considerng making a lot of design changes which I unfortunelty forgot to document here. The basic problem was doubt about handling of user accounts thorugh the Ethereum Android wallet, I was planning on switching to the UPort framework and instead of having NFC enabled arduinos tht would unlock the items there would be a QR code stciker and when scanned with your phoned camera would provide you with a pin for unlocking the item.
The QR code part would work but UPort would not ork with mobile.

I ruled out these changes and carried on with my original design, hwoever I have decided not to use React Native as the workload and learning needed integrate Native Java code required for Ethereum Android with React Natives Javascript outweighs the benefit of using the frameowkr, seeing as I wont be targeting IOS I can focus on developing primarily for android.

From now on I will have more frequent and less verbose blogs documenting more granular decisions, at the moment I have a native android application that uses the Ethereum Android library to communicate with Ethereum through the Ethereum Android application.

I am now researching integration of IPFS, I cannot use Firebase as previously mentioned as this is at odds with the goal of totl decentralization.

I have also started developing a testing plan.

---
## `Continuation`
I have been researching how I can identify users of the system. The technology does not yet exist to have a decentralized ID validation system whereby ID's would exist as contracts on the blockchain and could be used as a source of truth for a persons identity. Delock needs to validate a persons identity to deter robberies and fake account creation, we need to be able to concretely associate a person with an Ethereum Address.

I will look into integrating this feature using a regular api and put on record that the idea is for the system to move to a decentralized method of ID verification in the future when the software exists.

---
## `Monday March 5th`
I have been grappling with understanding why so many Dapps launched their own unique ERC20 tokens as opposed to just using Ether (The currency used to run the etehereum network). The thing is that they cannot charge fees on ether and after some research I have found that I will not require such a token as it is merely a means by which project developers introduce fees that are then used to further fund the project development. This was something I had thought would be very problematic for me and I am relived to find it does not apply.

I have also begun drafting the smart contracts for Userrs and Listings in order to see what functionality will need to be implemennted. I intend to draw up more formal diagrams in the near future.

In terms of ID verification I cannot find a non-enterprise level API, I may have to leave this unimplemented and just say that it would be implemented in the future when the tech is there to integrate. Not having this leaves a the application open to fraud by users creating throwaway ethereum addresses I believe.

---

## `Thursday March 16th`

I have been tried to make a start on the hardware side of things, at the moment I have a seperate (test app) running on my phone which is able to successfully talk to the arduino and send information. I also have created a barebones UI for the delock app using a card view structure, I decided to do some work on the UI as I really wanted to see some tangible progress. Over the next week I will work on integrating the NFC functionality into the delock app.

---

## `Sunday March 18th`
St.Patricks day was very cold but still great. Continuing on with my work on the UI I have decided to take a step backwards and look at implmenting a MVP (Model, View, Presenter) type architecture so as to aid maintainabiliy, extensibility and seperation of concerns between activites. If I can manage this it should make life a lot easier down the road. In addition to this I have found a brilliant open source collection of android UI design examples which should speed up my UI/UX design and implementation significantly.

I hope to have the MVP structure set up today and can then work on getting the NFC functionality in.

### Reading: https://antonioleiva.com/mvp-android/


---
## `Thursday March 29th`
I spent quite  bit of time trying to make the MVP structurer work but to no avail. I found it very hard to understand and quite different to MVC for web which I have a good bit of experience with, therefore I have scrapped that and in the time since my last blog I have implemented some basic NFC functionality and hooked up some more placeholder activity screens that need to be finished.

Now that I know the NFC if working and I have a decent proportion of the UI in place I want to start work on the smart contracts and communication with Ethereum. From reading more into Ethereum Android it looks like I may have to stop using it in favour of creating my own wallet and communicating with the blockchain via Web3j as Ethereum Android does not facilitate the deployment of smart contracts which it a big part of the application.

---
## `Sunday April 15th`
Since last I have decided to stop using Ethereum-Android wallet as I belive I can implement the needed functionality using Web3j in my own application, I have also managed to implement an IPFS daemon that will communicate with IPFS which acts as my database for pushing and pulling data, I was able to do this by using some code from an open source project called IPFSDroid on github. My plan now is to start writing the smart contracts.

---
---
## `Tuesday April 18th`
The app now has a pull out drawer for viewing user info and selecting a number of options such as settings and adding new items. Today I want to implement a local wallet using Web3j and hopefully get something done with the smart contracts. I am still figuring out how the contracts will work and co-operate.

---
[images](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet#images)
in my blog.

![cat](https://gitlab.computing.dcu.ie/sblott/2018-ca400-XXXX/raw/master/docs/blog/images/cat.jpg)

Here are the instructions:

- Add the image to your repo (probably using the `images` sub-directory here).
  The cat example above is in `./images/cat.jpg`.

- Commit that and push it to your repo.

- On Gitlab, navigate to your new image and click *Raw*.  You get the raw URL of your image.  Copy that URL.

- Add your image to this document using the following format:

    <pre>![alternative text](URL)</pre>

See the example [here](https://gitlab.computing.dcu.ie/sblott/2018-ca400-XXXX/raw/master/docs/blog/blog.md).

You can also mention other users (like me: @sblott).

## Including Code

Raw text:
```
Mary had a little lamb,
it's fleece was white as snow.
```

Syntax highlighting is also possible; for example...

Python:
```python
i = 0
while i < len(s):
   # So something.
   i = i + 1
```

Java:
```java
for (i=0; i<s.length(); i+=1) {
   // Do something.
}
```

Coffeescript:
```coffeescript
i = 0
while i < s.length
   # So something.
   i = i + 1
```

## Instructions

Once you've understood this sample, replace it with your own blog.
